In the last lecture, we rotated our element. We did this rotateZ and transform origin helps us
to define around which point we want to rotate.
Now we also want to move the element and of course we can do this with top and right,
it's an absolute element.
If we set top to let's say 1rem here, we move it down by 1rem,
therefore it went down a little bit.
Now nothing wrong with using top and right,
however if the element wasn't positioned absolute but instead statically like a normal element, we couldn't
use that,
we could then use the margin to kind of move it in a hacky way or set the position to relative to use
top and right again
but there actually is a better way if you really just want to move it for some visual effects and that
is the translate property or the translate function to be precise on the transform property.
There, you also get a couple of different values and we'll focus on x and y for now, translateZ will
become important for 3D transformations and translateX allows you to move the element on the x-axis.
Here you can enter rem, pixel, em or percentages,
so any normal units and it will move the element to the right by the value you enter here.
So if I enter 1rem here, if I now reload, the element moves to the right a little bit, this becomes
even clearer if I enter a higher value like 10rem here. If we entered 10rem into translateX,
now it's moved quite a bit to the right.
It also moved down a bit and that's happening because we rotated the element,
so it's moving diagonally.
You have to think of translateX as working on the x-axis which goes through the center of this box.
So right now, the x-axis isn't a normal horizontal line,
it's a diagonal from the top left to bottom right so to say. If we remove the rotation, we would have
a horizontal x-axis again.
So this is important to keep in mind for understanding how translateX works if you also apply
a rotation.
Now I don't want to move it by 10rem anyways,
I want to move it by 1 and I also want to move it on the y-axis maybe, so
let's add translateY
here,
also 1rem and
let's see where we end up then.
If we enter this, it looks like that.
Now one thing I want to change before I continue moving it around,
I want to increase the width of that element,
I want to increase the width so that we can center the text and get some excess space to the left and
to the right which we can actually cut off once it's positioned correctly
and once that extra space goes beyond the boundaries of that package box. The reason for this is that
once we cut it off, it'll look like a really nice badge on this box.
So for this, not related to transformations but useful here, I'll set a width of
12rem and add text align center to that badge. With that in place, if I save and reload this,
now this is our badge
and now we can try to position it in the way we want to position it.
So for that, I'll go back to translateX and translateY
and let's actually try a negative value for translateY and 2rem for translateX.
Now this is getting closer to where I want it,
now maybe we need 3rem for translateX to move it a bit further down to the right,
this is looking almost perfect, 3.5 should do the trick I believe
and now with that, we want to cut it off which we can do, non-transformation related, by simply going to
our package element,
so to the package selector and by adding overflow
hidden there,
this will make sure that any elements that go beyond the boundaries of the package box will be cropped.
So now if we reload, we've got this really nice badge sitting in the top right corner
and that is mainly achieved with transformations,
so with rotating the element and with moving it and again, why are we moving it with translate instead
of top and right?
You could use top and right, translateX and Y also get hardware acceleration though and therefore, are
a good tool if you just want to visually reposition the element,
so it's in general a good tool for that final finetuning to fit the element into the position you want
to fit it to,
especially when you're also working with other transformations like rotate.
So with that, we got our badge finished and we learned about the basic transformations with rotate
and translateX and Y.
Important to keep in mind,
translateX and Y, the axis changes when we rotate the element, the axis always goes through the center of
that badge, at least if transform origin is set to center. With that out of the way,
let's dive into two other transform functions we can use in the next lecture.